Now you will get a overview
of some models such as ElMo,
GPT, BERT, and T5.
I'm going to show you a
simplified history of how
models progressed from the
continuous bag of words model,
ElMo, GPT, BERT, and T5.
Note that this is not
a complete history of
all relevant models
and research findings,
but it's useful to help you see
what deficiencies the researchers
were solving for and how they
innovated to improve
model performance.
Over here, if you see a
word and you want to learn,
what does this word mean.
To do this, as you've
seen previously,
we used the context
before the word and
the context after
the word and we use
the continuous bag of words
model as an example to
learn and creates features
for the word right.
Now, one of the issues with
this continuous bag of
words model was that we
used a fixed window.
We use a context window of
size C. In this case is too,
but you can make it
bigger or smaller.
But the goal was that
you used a fixed window.
Given the words,
you feed them into
a neural network and you
predict the outputs,
which is the center word.
Now, the issue is what if
you need more context?
In this case you
have a fixed window,
but let's say that
you want to add
the streets as parts of the
contexts with the right.
On the other hand, maybe
it could be instead
of the streets,
this could be history.
How do you incorporate this?
Now, to do so, we
want to find a way
such that we can use
all the context words.
Over here, it starts from
the legislators believed
that they were on the,
and then to the right you have
side of history so
they changed the law.
Not use all the context
words we can use ElMo.
What's ElMo does,
it is a model which
makes use of an RNN
on the right side and
then another RNN on
the left side and then
it uses this two to
predict the center word.
Concretely, it uses a
bi-directional LSTM,
which is another
version of an RNN
and you have the
inputs from the left,
plus the inputs from the
rights that you feed in.
and then it's predicts
the outputs word right.
You get the word embedding for
the word right from this model.
Now, Open AI brought GPT.
Basically we first started by
using a transformer which
has an encoder decoder,
and you're familiar
with transformers now.
Then we started using GPT,
which just uses
the decoder stack,
so it does not have an encoder.
We also had ElMo,
and ElMo just used RNNs.
Given this sentence, the
legislature's believed that
they were on the blank.
Now, ideally, we also want
to know what's coming from
the other side and GPT
unfortunately is uni-directional.
Although ElMo was bi-directional,
it's also suffered
from some issues
as capturing longer-term
dependencies.
Why not use bi-directional?
In transformers, remember
we had the following,
which was self attention,
and each word can peek at itself.
But the issue here is that
GPT is still uni-directional.
Remember from previous lessons,
you've seen causal
attention and how you can
only look at the previous inputs,
so there's no peeking.
To recap, we had transformers
which had encoder and decoder,
we had GPT which
was only a decoder,
and then we had BERTs,
which is just an encoder.
As it works over here,
you have the legislature's
believed that
they were on the blank
side of history,
so they changed the law.
Ideally we want to find
a way such that we use
bi-directional representations
from the left side and
from the right side.
That's what's
bi-directional encoder
representation from
transformer does basically.
Now, let's try to combine
the transformer plus the
bi-directional context.
Over here, you have on the
blank side, blank history,
and you feed it into your model
and you get the
outputs right and of.
This is an example of
multi-master language modeling.
Now, BERTs, from
words to sentences,
you can have the legislature's
believe that they were on
the right side of history,
and then you also have two
possible sentences coming
up next and you want to
predict which one
makes more sense.
In this case, so they
changed the law and not then
the bunny ate the carrot
because the second
one is not relevant.
Given sentence A, you try to
predict the next sentence,
which is sentence B and
which one is sentence B.
For BERT pre-training tasks,
we have multi-mask
language modeling.
Meaning we mask several words in
a sentence and we try to
predict what the
masked words were.
If you listen to
the model and you
get the two masked
words in this case.
Then you also have next sentence
predictions so given sentence A,
you predict which one
is sentence is B.
Then T5 game, and T5 did
not only use an encoder,
but it's used encoder decoder.
To recap, we had
transformer which uses
encoder decoder, we had GPT,
which only uses the decoder,
we had BERT which uses
the encoder only
and then we got T5,
which uses an encoder
and the decoder.
T5 uses multi-task learning.
Given the following inputs,
studying with
deep-learning AI was,
feed it to the model and you get
five-stars and hopefully
it is five-stars.
Then you can use the same model
given the question,
you got the answer.
How can you do this?
T5 is all text to text
and what you can do,
you can append a tag
over here, for example,
classify and then you
basically tell the model
that's it's going to classify
and it's going to give you
five-stars or summarize
and it's going to summarize
and is going give
you the summary,
question and it's going to give
you the corresponding answer.
Basically, what's T5 does,
it allows you to append
a label and these are not
the corresponding labels,
but it's just for simplicity.
Basically you can append
a label and then the model
will take care of the outputs.
In summary, we started with
the continuous bag
of words model and
then it used fixed context window
and the feedforward
neural network.
Then I spoke a little bit
about ElMo and how you
can use bi-directional
contexts with an RNN.
Then we spoke about GPT
and how it just uses
a transformer decoder and its
uses uni -directional in context.
Then we spoke about BERT and
how it's just an encoder.
It is bi-directional, it uses
multi-mask for training and
next sentence prediction.
Then we spoke about T5 and
how it uses an encoder
decoder stack,
and how it's also a bi-directional
and uses multi-task.